---
layout: post
title: Startime '77
subtitle: The Congress Theatre, Eastbourne
description: Lena Zavaroni stars in her own show at The Congress Theatre, Eastbourne.
image: /assets/images/theatres/1977-08-16-startime-77-01.jpg
categories: [Theatre]
---

### Programme
> <iframe src="/assets/pdf/1977-08-16-startime77.pdf" width="100%" height="605px">This browser does not support PDFs.</iframe>
>
> <button onclick="makeFullScreen()">Make Full Screen</button>
>
> **Note:** The PDF only has the main pages the Original Programme has a number of advertising pages that I left out.

<cite>Robcamstone</cite>

### Research
> Research is on going and hopefully I will be able to add more details
>
> If anybody has information on this performance please add or let me know and I will add it for you or if you were lucky enough to be there then please consider sharing your Fan Stories/Memories with us.
>
> All information is of value and helps to keep the memories we have of Lena Zavaroni alive.
>
> You can add content [here](https://github.com/FanzOfLenaZavaroni/fanzoflenazavaroni.github.io) or Comment below.

<cite>Robcamstone</cite>

### Google Map
* [Fanz of Lena Zavaroni (Mapping Lena Zavaroni's life)](https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/viewer?mid=1D1D0ERV_FQMNb9XZzJ-J3yUlK8aI4vhI&hl=en&ll=50.76286380000003%2C0.2833891999999878&z=19)

<style>
body, html {
    height: 100%;
    margin: 0;
    overflow: hidden;
}
iframe {
    width: 500px;
    height: 500px;
}
iframe.fullScreen {
    width: 100%;
    height: 100%;
    position: absolute;
    top: 0;
    left: 0;
</style>

<script>
function requestFullScreen(element) {
    // Supports most browsers and their versions.
    var requestMethod = element.requestFullScreen || element.webkitRequestFullScreen || element.mozRequestFullScreen || element.msRequestFullscreen;

    if (requestMethod) { // Native full screen.
        requestMethod.call(element);
    } else if (typeof window.ActiveXObject !== "undefined") { // Older IE.
        var wscript = new ActiveXObject("WScript.Shell");
        if (wscript !== null) {
            wscript.SendKeys("{F11}");
        }
    }
}

function makeFullScreen() {
    document.getElementsByTagName("iframe")[0].className = "fullScreen";
    var elem = document.body;
    requestFullScreen(elem);
}
</script>

