---
layout: post
title: emma &#124; 22 July 1978
maintitle: emma
subtitle:
description: In her weekly column, Lena tells us about the time she dressed up in her mum's wedding dress and stood too close to the fire, and got it covered in soot.
post_description: In her weekly column, Lena tells us about the time she dressed up in her mum's wedding dress and stood too close to the fire, and got it covered in soot.
categories: [Comic-emma, OnThisDay22July]
---

<figure class="fig3">
<div class="CardLayout">
<div class="CardItem"><h2 id="infobox1" class="infobox"><a href="#infobox1">lena and the soot-covered wedding dress</a></h2>
<div class="CardItem split">
<p>Summary based on the original article published on 8 July 1978 titled <strong>it's Lena, it's Lena'</strong></p>
<p>emma recalls a childhood mishap when she borrowed her mum’s white satin wedding dress for a garden play—only to be showered in soot from the chimney. Though the dress was cleaned, the memory stuck. She also talks about her TV wardrobe, noting she could buy outfits at a discount, like a green sequin catsuit worn with Bonnie Langford. While she enjoys dressing up for special occasions, she prefers jeans, T-shirts, and floppy sweaters for everyday comfort. Her favourite T-shirt features Popeye, and she also wears a Bugs Bunny brooch—her lucky mascot, gifted by her manager in America.</p>
</div></div></div>
</figure>

<figure class="fig3">
<div class="CardLayout">
<div class="CardItem"><h2 id="infobox2" class="infobox"><a href="#infobox2">Comment</a></h2>
<div class="CardItem split">
<p>I have to say I find it shameful that Lena had to pay to keep costumes that would likely have been of no use to anyone else.</p>
<p>We were often told how difficult it was to find clothes that fit her, so based on that (even if exaggerated), why not simply let her keep them? They wouldn’t have fit anyone else.</p>
<p>It’s also worth noting that the Solomons sourced her costumes through a clothing manufacturer who was a friend of Phil Solomon. That suggests they may have secured a deal or discount—yet Lena still had to pay for the outfits herself.</p>
<p>Given that they were already earning money as her managers, it feels like Lena may have effectively paid twice: once through her earnings, and again directly for the clothes.</p>
<p>To me, this seems like yet another example of how Lena may have been financially taken advantage of.</p>
<cite>Robcamstone</cite>
</div></div></div>
</figure>

