---
layout: page
title: On This Day
description: 14 October (1984 - Des O'Connor Tonight was filmed at Thames Television Studios in London, England for broadcast on 16 October 1984. 1989 - The magazine Hello Issue No.73&#58; featured a short mention of Lena's wedding the previous month, and included a small B&W photo.)
categories: [On This Day]
---

**15 October 1999:**
[<span id="age2"></span> years ago Lena Zavaroni’s Funeral took place at The Roman Catholic Church of St Augustine, Presbytery, High Street, Hoddesdon, Herts, EN11 8DS.](/biography/lena-zavaroni#lena-zavaronis-funeral)

**15 October 1999:**
<span id="age1"></span> years ago the media reports on the funeral of Lena Zavaroni.
* [BBC News &#124; Wales &#124; Farewell to star Lena.](http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/wales/476065.stm)
* Scotland Today: The Scottish early evening news programme reported from Lena's funeral at St Augustine Church in Hoddeston. It featured mourners, including Bonnie Langford, entering the church, and interviews with some members of the public. Also showed Lena's coffin leaving the church, followed by members of her family. A clip of Lena singing 'Should've Listened to Mama', from the final Opportunity Knocks show was also featured.
* ITN reported from Lena's funeral at St Augustine church in Hoddeston. It featured footage of the hearse arriving at the church, and her coffin being carried inside. Then Bonnie Langford arrives with her husband, and the report ends with Lena's coffin being carried out again. A clip of Lena singing 'Should've Listened To Mama' from Opportunity Knocks was also included.

> Note: I am unable to confirm it but it may well be that the Scotland Today report and the ITN report were the same as both channels would come under the umbrella term of independent Television which was how non-BBC channels were/are identified.
>
> Note: The above is just an example of the many media reports that would have taken place on the day of Lena Zavaroni's funeral.

<cite>Robcamstone</cite>

<!-- Script for calculating number of years ago -->
<script>
var dob = '19991015';
var year = Number(dob.substr(0, 4));
var month = Number(dob.substr(4, 2)) - 1;
var day = Number(dob.substr(6, 2));
var today = new Date();
var age1 = today.getFullYear() - year;
if (today.getMonth() < month || (today.getMonth() == month && today.getDate() < day)) {
age1--;
}
document.getElementById("age1").innerHTML=age1;

var dob = '19991015';
var year = Number(dob.substr(0, 4));
var month = Number(dob.substr(4, 2)) - 1;
var day = Number(dob.substr(6, 2));
var today = new Date();
var age2 = today.getFullYear() - year;
if (today.getMonth() < month || (today.getMonth() == month && today.getDate() < day)) {
age2--;
}
document.getElementById("age2").innerHTML=age2;
</script>
<!-- Scripts -->
