---
layout: post
title: Joepie &#124; 3 April 1974
maintitle: Joepie
subtitle: Belgium Magazine
description: A FEMALE JIMMY OSMOND!
post_description: LENA ZAVARONI - A FEMALE JIMMY OSMOND!
categories: [Magazines, OnThisDay3April]
last_modified_at: 2 April 2026
---

<h2 id="infobox1"><a href="#infobox1">English Breakdown Of The Dutch Article</a></h2>

<p>The Dutch article informs that Lena Zavaroni comes from Rothesay, in Scotland and is of Italian extraction, as her grandfather emigrated from Italy to Scotland many years ago.</p>
<p>It goes on to explain how she was discovered using the "Pub version" of the <a href="/1963-11-04-lena-zavaroni/#infobox8">discovery story</a> of Lena by Philip Solomon, and claims the 10-year-old Lena is destined to become a female Jimmy Osmand.</p>
<p>It also explains about her appearances on "Opportunity Knocks" and her Debite Single and how the Single immediately earned her a silver record.</p>
<p>It then not very clearly (if the translation in to trusted ) explans how her parents moved to LOndon to be near to Lena and give more support.</p>
<p>It covers her starting at singing and dancing lessons at the famous Italia Conti School, but again not that clear but could also be down to a poor English translation</p>
<p>It goes on to say that while Records and Television are something Lena can take part in but stage work is out of the question due to her young age.
<p>The article ends with the Lyrics to her single <a href="/discography/singles/1974-ma-hes-making-eyes-at-me-belgium">Ma! (He's Making Eyes At Me)</a>, as well as the following copyright details for the lyrics: Copyright 1921 by McCarty & Fischer Inc. N.Y. Mills Music. With permission for Belgium from Eds. Francis Day, Centrum Galerij, Bloc 2 - 1000 Brussels.</p>
